Publishing Project to android phone

==1. Obtain a private key==

source: http://developer.android.com/guide/publishing/app-signing.html

Here's an example of a Keytool command that generates a private key:

* $ keytool -genkey -v -keystore my-release-key.keystore 
-alias alias_name -keyalg RSA -validity 10000 *

==2. Use the private key you just generated to get an MD5 fingerprint==

source: http://code.google.com/android/add-ons/google-apis/mapkey.html#getfingerprint

Here's an example of a Keytool command that generates an MD5 certificate fingerprint for the key alias_name in the keystore my-release-key.keystore:

* $ keytool -list -alias alias_name -keystore my-release-key.keystore *

Keytool will prompt you to enter passwords for the keystore and key. As output of the command, Keytool prints the fingerprint to the shell. For example:

Certificate fingerprint (MD5): 94:1E:43:49:87:73:BB:E6:A6:88:D7:20:F1:8E:B5:98 
Once you have the fingerprint, you can go to the Maps API registration site, described next.


==3. Register the certificate fingerprint with Google Maps Service==
@ http://code.google.com/android/maps-api-signup.html

==4. Add you registered api key to your application==

Adding the Maps API Key to your Application
Once you've registered with the Google Maps service and have obtained a Maps API Key, you must add it to your application's MapView objects, so that the Maps server will allow them to download Maps tiles. 

For _MapView_ elements declared in XML layout files, add the Maps API Key as the value of a special attribute — android:apiKey. For example: 

{{{
<com.google.android.maps.MapView
 android:layout_width="fill_parent"
 android:layout_height="fill_parent"
 android:enabled="true"
 android:clickable="true"
 android:apiKey="example_Maps_ApiKey_String"
 />
}}}

For MapView objects instantiated directly from code, pass the Maps API Key string as a parameter in the constructor. For example: 

mMapView = new MapView(this, "example_Maps_ApiKey_String");


===*_Be Sure to Save and Build Project with new API KEY_*===

==5. Export your application== 

In Eclipse, right click on your project and select "Android Tools"--->"Export Signed Application Package..."

Follow the wizard and supply the information you used when creating the private key

==6. Connect your android phone to your computer via usb==

==7. Download the android phone driver==

for windows go here: http://www.anddev.org/download.php?id=449 

When windows tries to install the driver point it to search for the unzipped file you just downloaded.

==7. Installing your application onto the phone==

Open up cmd and navigate to your android sdk tools directory. 

* $ adb install {{{<path_to_apk>}}} *


==8. Run App==