#labels Phase-Design
#Using the built in ticket tracking service

= Why To Do =

I think it would be beneficial if we all started using the built-in ticket tracking service. It will help us keep a running TODO list, and let others know what bugs/needed features you have discovered that they may not know about.

As class ends, this will especially help those of us that want to continue working on this project.


= What To Do =

== Creating a Ticket ==

If you find any bug, or think of a needed feature, make a ticket! It is that simple. Use the following guidelines when making a ticket:

  * Use a descriptive title, keep it short though
  * Be as thorough as possible in the description, we need to know: 
    * what the problem is
    * how to reproduce the problem
    * your opinions on how to fix it (where applicable)
    * if it was an exception, try and post some of the log file or traceback
  * try and apply all applicable labels to the ticket
  * keep yourself as the owner initially, even if you don't plan on fixing it
  * if you plan on fixing it, keep the status as accepted. Otherwise set it to *new*

== Solving a Ticket ==

Ok, so you want to solve a ticket. First step, change the owner to yourself. Next, change the status to accepted. This lets others know that you plan on fixing this problem. 

When the ticket has been solved, and everybody agrees on this, close the ticket. This ensures that the open tickets are a running TODO list, and don't get cluttered with ones that are not applicable. 